# Model2roms
This project is a Python toolbox for creating the necessary climatology, boundary, and initial files required to run the ROMS (Regional Ocean Modeling System) model. As a first version this toolkit focus on converting the SODA, HYCOM, or GLORYS ([Mercator Ocean](http://www.mercator-ocean.fr/eng/science/GLORYS/Reanalyses2/GLORYS2V1)) model runs to a set of forcing files for a given ROMS grid structure.

## Background
For the last year I have been working on this toolbox that I used to call soda2roms, but which is not renamed to model2roms as it has become more generic over the years. This program is a collection of python and Fortran modules that can be used to create climatology (CLIM), initial (INIT), and boundary (BRY) files necessary to run the ROMS model. Currently, the program takes rectangular gridded forcing filesinput at Z-levels. These data are interpolated to the ROMS grid at Z-levels. Then the Z-levels are interpolated vertically to the sigma layers. For U, and V velocities, the interpolation is done at RHO points, and then interpolated to U and V points. All interpolated values are written to netCDF4 files, where the result is one file for each CLIM, INIT, and BRY files. UBAR and VBAR are calculated from U and V. Time is stored as julian day from 01/01/1948 (see soda2roms.py).

Please send a comment on suggestions, questions, or modifications and improvements you would like to make. I would very much like to see this project go much further so that it can be useful for a variety of purposes.